<b>Domain</b>     :: Coding Dojo (cd)
<b>Topic</b>      :: Ruby on Rails (ror), Understanding Rails - Models (02model)
<b>Assignment</b> :: Users (01users)
<b>Repository</b> :: cd-ror-02model-01users


  rails new user_login_project
  cd user_login_project/

  edit> Gemfile
    gem 'bcrypt', '~> 3.1.7'    # Using bcrypt (3.1.7)
    gem 'foundation-rails'      # Using foundation-rails (5.4.0.0)
    gem 'hirb'                  # Using hirb (0.7.2)
  bundle install

  rails generate model User first_name:string last_name:string email_address:string age:integer

  edit> User.rb
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
      validates :first_name, :last_name, :email_address, :age, presence: true
      validates :age, numericality: {
          :only_integer => true, 
          :greater_than_or_equal_to => 10,
          :less_than => 150
      }
      validates :first_name, :last_name, :length => { :minimum => 2 }
  end

  rake db:create
  rake db:migrate

  rail c
  Hirb.enable()

  User.create(:first_name => "Amber", :last_name => "Baker", :email_address => "amber@amber.com", :age => 21)
  User.create(first_name:"Carmen", last_name:"Dickerson", email_address:"carmen@carmen.com", age:22)
  User.create(:first_name => "Dian", :last_name => "Edwards", :email_address => "amber@amber.com", :age => 23)
  User.create(first_name:"Fannie", last_name:"Garison", email_address:"fannie@fannie.com", age:24)

  user1 = User.new(first_name:"Helen", last_name:"Ison", email_address:"helen@helen.com")
  user1.valid?                    # => false
  user1.errors
  user1.errors.full_messages
  user1.save                      # => false, rollback transaction
  user1.update(age:66)            # => true, commit transaction (changed age to 66 and committed to db)
  user1.valid?                    # => true
  User.where(first_name:"Helen")  # id = 5
  User.find(5).update(age:25)     # => true, commit transaction

  user2 = User.new(first_name:"Helen", last_name:"Ison", email_address:"helen@helen.com", age:26)
  user2.valid?                    # true
  user2.new_record?               # true
  user2.save                      # => true, commit transaction 
  User.find(6).update(first_name:"Jane", last_name:"Karson", email_address:"jane@jane.com")

  user3 = User.new(first_name:"Linda", last_name:"Madison")
  user3.valid?                    # false
  user3 = User.new(first_name:"Linda", last_name:"Madison", email_address:"Linda@Linda.com", age:27)
  user3.valid?                    # true
  user3.new_record?               # true
  user3.save                      # => true, commit transaction 
  user3.new_record?               # false

  user4 = User.new
  user4.valid?
  user4.errors
  user4.errors.full_messages
  user4.update(age: 5)
  user4.errors.full_messages

  User.all
  User.first
  User.last

  User.order("first_name DESC") 
  or 
  User.order("first_name desc") 
  or
  User.order(first_name: :desc) 
  but not 
  User.order(first_name: :DESC)

  User.find(3)
  User.find(3).update(last_name: "Smith")
  User.all

  User.find(4)
  User.destroy(4)
  User.all
